This subject was touched upon by last year's guest of honor for detention, Poul Anderson, and he made it his central subject. I should find
myself with no problem with my hands. Poul's own subject was an appeal for a unitary approach to science fiction, in which philosophy, love,
technology, poetry, and the elements of daily life all played in important and roughly equal roles. Now, this is an ideal prescription for good
science fiction. But it's a good prescription only because it is good for fiction to hope. And indeed, no good fiction of any kind has ever been
produced in any other way. And I feel safe in saying that none ever will. One side of novels may be satire, or allegory, or teen novels, that kind of
novel where You don't know what's going on until you discover that the character named Horace and the old Fitz Campbell's really can be loose.
But they are never complete novel for career exceptions, and they have about as much lasting power as these Kleenex. This is fiction that's most
science fiction very well. And Poul did a very thorough job of expanding upon it. But it seems to me that Poul's unitary principle also goes a long
way toward explaining Why popular or critical successes, like 1984, the play of piano, limbo, crazy world, style of the unborn, and so on, never
increase our audience or the prestige of our idiom. We have asked ourselves, time and time again, why this is free? I think I have an answer, I'm
not sure. Many of these books turn on gimmicks which to us are old and stale. And usually, they handle those gimmicks clumsily and with varying
degrees of knowing the day. If they command an audience with respect, which are much more spiritual and experienced practitioners like I, or a
fool, or a person actually, can't even get close to it. Orwell had no reputation as a novelist. He had written only one, he'd be asked to
disperfine, and drew a red font, and everybody said it was red font. What I'm trying to do were virtually unknown. Nevertheless, these
successes can be accounted for. Each of these outside authors can visibly be seen to be speaking about something. George Orwell was not simply
pushing around the devices of that old plot about the future Asian type despotism, in the hopes of finding an annual pressure not to sell care. He
had taken fundamental to say, the peace is about one of the great philosophical problems of all time. The nature of the relationship between the
individual and the state. And it's a small wonder that people, particularly in our time, smashed up that box with an old regimen of salmon. It's
of no importance to far-well-futurist devices, but to a little seedy, and still what a little seedy is this room full of jade specialists. What
is important is the proposition he set out to show us, Perhaps the most important contribution by an artist to this problem is thought to please
both the Antigone, and perhaps the first original text proposition since then. This proposition, which is the drive deal of 1984, is only six
words long. In fact, it's six words. The purpose of power is power. Not wealth, not luxury, not fame, not a woman of day, and most certainly not the
public welfare, make it enjoyment of power for its own sake. To most of the kind of people who are attracted to politics, power is not a means to
another end, but is in itself the greatest possible audience. This is a pretty bloodthirsty notion, precisely because so much history has been
supported, particularly recent entries, but not only is it sharp, it commands attention. in a way that the rats and torture machines in the very
same chapter can possibly do. I have one more example, and then I'm going to pass on. Therefore, I'll ask pretty much the same sort of question. In
this case, it read, person who were told it for what. In Star of the Unborn, you will recall, people didn't value it. They were scientifically
changed into a sort of vegetable organism and planted it. So that in effect, they lived forever, assuming, I suppose, somebody else wanted
them. The process sometimes went awry and produced monstrosities. Since these were irreversible, they were just thrown away. Monstrosities
had a tendency, too, to resemble whatever character defect a man had in his original life. A grasping man, for instance, might turn into a huge,
flopping hand and arm, and so on, and you can see it's possible. Here again, first the women's immortality in the flesh is an old science fiction
subject, which I have written about myself until have you all. But the question of what has to be done with all those years, starting comes up.
What it does, there is usually a little ritual about how wonderful it would be to have all those lifetimes to become experts in some subjects, or
to pursue some gigantic project, persons with just a monthly probable for one person out of a thousand, or maybe even a hundred thousand, for the
rest of us, the chances are much better than in the country wither, at the end of this. We'll vegetate mindlessly, like barefoot flowers, but
become more and more civil-mindedly and monstrously the same kind of cripple or sinner that we've learned in our past seven years. For a
barefoot, who was a carpenter, was perfectly obvious that the human psyche isn't built to take the immortality of the flesh. To me, an agnostic,
this conclusion seems one and a percent right. So now, we have Orwell talking about the problem of power. Funnily, it's about the problem of
gold, careful about the problem of time and mortality. All these books are about something. I said, look to you. Very few science fiction
stories, even the very best of them, are above them. And that in this sense, they fail to hold unitary tests in the worst possible way. For all
their ingenuity and detail, and their sweetness as exercises, they show new signs of speaking. And by that, I mean thinking about others that
mean something to everyone. not just about whether or not a natural state lives in a situation of gravity, which is gimmick in the past. And that
happens when a general reader, fascinated by funnabood or a graphical or whoever, steps into our field from one to the same. You may very well
notice that what he is now reading is more adjoining some ways, that one game is going to last him long. General readers and critics may be taken in
temporarily by small ingenuities which are new to them. But only temporarily, that is not the kind of thing they admire in fiction, nor should
that. Nor will they seek you to have these things and want to stimulate it. The genuine sense of wonder, which is a piece of standard equipment in
the human brain, can get along very well on what is commonplace to the destructible. It does not need to be bludgeoned by an endless succession of
concocted and visibly splurgeous models Anti-matter, galactic coercions, and members of a long range of zeroes accidents do have their
fascinants. A new one is nearly as awe-inspiring as a five-year-old girl who happens to be yours. The winning of the science fiction time can
bring you awarding any headlines for having come to this big time and come out four squares in favor of particulate. While the same, it is true
that wonders are many. but none so wonderful as mine. Yet you may read several hundred science fiction stories a year without finding more than
one which reflects any consciousness of its banal and ancient axiom. The writer or reader who still thinks an exploding star is inherently more
wonderful than the mind and heart of the man who wonders at it himself is going to learn out of these political wonders sooner or later. And then
perhaps he will blame the readers for the writers of the effort of the divided public we have seen this process going on a long time. When he is now
seeking conviction of all time, science fiction included, it's not the sense of wonder, it's the sense of conviction. The feeling that the
story you are reading is about something that is more your adult attention than the author approaches it in that light. Some few words of great
science fiction are as serious and as rewarding as anything their authors might have attempted outside our field. Childhoods in and more than
human both pass my proposed test magnificent. But I have the awful feeling that many of us continue to read science fiction and to write it for no
better reason than that it is comfortable and safe. No matter how outlandish it looks to outsiders, We can deal with it, and we'll use it. And I
think it's manifestly impossible to write well about any subject that you think God is comfortable and safe, or to read it well with comfort and
safety on what you see. Truth science fiction is neither. It is precisely the science fiction story that wrapping people's teeth and shaking
their convictions defines its way into the mainstream, and this is the essence of the difference. And by this, I don't need an icon smashing. I
personally feel quite certain that people will still be reading Ted Sturgeon from the variety and nature of the love relationship. Long
after the advertising boys have lost their final offense and gone home, and are no longer there available to be satirized. Just as they still
raise the brothers' car mark off, the morning the open Uncle Tom's happened, although they weren't with him in the same year. and the problem of
discussing the brothers are still with us, and I always will be. And we have reached the stage where our physical horizons can't be expanded much
more without bursting a bubble of the physical universe. The ethical, the moral, the philosophical horizons remain. And those are infinite.
And it is fair, I believe, that the realm of good science fiction must lie. for his death and my dear friend...to come to roughly
the same conclusion. I quote, we are suspending reality, you and I. By the signs of the rocket ship and the radar and the time machine, we indicate
the relationship between us is nothing to do with the real world. By writing the stuff and by reading it, we advocate for action. We give free play
to our unconscious drive and symbols. We write and read not about the real world, but about ourselves and things within ourselves. This is true,
but it is not all the truth. The real world is not different from what we have inside our skulls. In fact, all we know about the real world is inside
our skulls. This dichotomy which Cheryl describes is not a real dichotomy. The weirdos in fives and fiction is all in the head. That's where it
must go. Otherwise, it's just gadgetry and talk.
About the theme of the interior of the Academy on Bar's room, my physical speech teacher used to tell me that I must never leave an audience with a
general point, but this always provides them with some action they might take if they agree with me. If it happens, I have one handed. The only
question I have to deal with, in fact, for any kind of people can be exerted on what gets written, on what gets outlined with what gets written in
the river voting. Next year, when the magic time comes around, we will lay down our list of five or 10 possible unique categories, and
particularly in the novel, because this is where the influence gets made.
I suggest that you put aside your other reasons for admiring your choices. Just temporarily. and ask yourself about which type would you put
down? Is it about anything?
Nothing could be better than the hope of our field, and to let every science fiction writer know, beginning right now, that from now on, there
will be no escape from the question.
Well that is good, but that makes, to put it in the fitting end, I've been
given a piece of news, which I know would have caused giving Jim an intimate session. As I mentioned earlier, it was great to watch the film that I
could do, and I've both been told that the Bobbein library there aren't except for the gift of his manuscripts and papers and books, and there
will be kept there for all our James Blish archives. This is the most admirable and entertaining play of James Blish's material. It's been mounted
in the upstairs part of the restaurant. It's time to look at that nice, many-time little party. And finally, to let me know, to say to the other
half, everyone who's taking part in this program, and provided an evening which Jim, I would have enjoyed as much as we all have, and most
importantly, very well. I may be back with his young depression, who elames this every single bit of it...
Good night. Thank you all very much indeed for coming.